# Recommendation-engines
Analysing a dataset and make recommendations to users with methods such as colaborative filtering (nearest neighbour, SVD) and content based filtering.


### Table of Contents

1. [Project Motivation](#motivation)
2. [File Descriptions](#files)
4. [Results](#results)
5. [Acknowledgements](#licensing)

## Installation <a name="installation"></a>

The code should run in Python 3 with no problems. No additional packages are needed. 

Follwoing are the used libraries:
 - numpy
 - pandas
 - seaborn
 - matplotlib.pyplot
 - LinearRegression from sklearn.linear_model
 - train_test_split from sklearn.model_selection 
 - r2_score, mean_squared_error from sklearn.metrics

## Project Motivation<a name="motivation"></a>

In this project I was interested in analysing an airbnb dataset of Seattle with the focus on the price:

1. How does the spatial distribution look like? Are there reasons for higher prices in certain regions?
2. How much money was generated by each airbnb accommodation? How does the spatial distribution look like?
3. What other factors influence the price?

## File Descriptions <a name="files"></a>

The used data consists of two dataframes and can be downloaded here.

The steps of the analysis can be viewed in the Crisp_DM_history.ipynb file. There is also a single jupyter file for each question to generate the desired plots.

## Results<a name="results"></a>

The main findings of the results can also be foun

## Licensing, Authors, Acknowledgements<a name="licensing"></a>

I thank IBM for offering the data. You can also use the code here and run the model by yourself. Maybe you even have an idea for adjustments or improvements. 

